## SecurityExplained S-88

### CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 
The product defines permissions for a security-critical resource so that unwanted actors can read or modify it.
When a resource's permissions are set to allow access to a broader range of actors than is required, sensitive information may be exposed, or undesired parties may modify the resource. This is very risky when the resource is tied to program configuration, execution, or sensitive user data.
 
This flaw arises due to the deployment of an architectural security strategy. The developer may make assumptions about the product's operating environment, such as that the software runs on a single-user system or is only available to trusted administrators. Permissions become a concern when the software is run in a different environment.
When the user starts the program, the developer may establish loose permissions to reduce difficulties, then add documentation saying that permissions should be tightened. However, because system administrators and users do not always read the documentation, insecure permissions may be kept unaltered.
 
 
# Example:
This code creates a new user's home directory and makes that user directory's owner. If the user does not have permission to own the new directory, the directory is removed.
 
 
The directory is created with the default permissions 0777 because the optional "mode" argument is absent from the call to mkdir(). Setting the new user as the directory's administrator does not modify the directory's permissions, which are still set to the default. Any user can read and write to the directory by default, allowing an exploit on the user's files.
 
# Potential Impact:
 
An attacker may be able to delete or damage essential data in the related resource, such as entries from a database, by destroying or corrupting it.
An attacker could exploit this vulnerability to read private information from the connected resource, such as credentials or configuration information stored in a file.
To obtain privileges, an attacker may change crucial attributes of the related resource, such as replacing a world-writable executable with Malware.
 
 
# Mitigations:  
Check to verify whether a critical resource, such as a configuration file, has insecure permissions (such as being editable by any regular user) and generate an error or even quits the software if there is a chance an unauthorized person has updated the resource.
 
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment where strict limits separate the process and the operating system.  


#### A more detailed information about this vulnerability can be found here: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/732.html



[Follow Twitter Thread](https://twitter.com/harshbothra_/status/1508761138208514055)
